I look at it and do not see it, and therefore call it invisible. I listen to it
and do not hear it, and therefore call it inaudible. I try to grasp it and do
not reach it, therefore I call it elusive. One should not strive to know about
the source of this, because it is unified. Its top is not illuminated, its
bottom is not darkened. It is infinite and cannot be named. It returns again to
non-existence. And so they call it a form without forms, an image without
substance. Therefore, they call it unclear and foggy. I meet with it and do not
see its face, I follow it and do not see its back.

If the doors of perception were cleansed, everything would be seen as it is,
infinite.

The infinite has, like no other question, always so deeply moved the mind of
man; the infinite has, like hardly any other idea, had such an exciting and
fruitful effect on the intellect; but the infinite is also, like no other
concept, so much in need of clarification.

The infinite is the answer to all questions. All questions have one answer. And
therefore there are not many questions, but only one question. This question is:
what is the infinite?

I closed my eyes, then opened them. And then I saw the Aleph. Here I approach
the ineffable moment of my narrative and confess my writerly impotence. Every
language is an alphabet of symbols, the use of which presupposes a certain
shared past with the interlocutor. But how to describe to others the Aleph,
whose boundlessness is incomprehensible even to my timid mind? Moreover, the
main problem remains unsolvable: the enumeration, even if incomplete, of an
infinite set. In that grand moment, I saw millions of phenomena – both
delightful to the eye and terrifying – none of which surprised me as much as
the fact that all of them were occurring in one place, neither overlapping one
another nor being transparent. What my eyes saw was happening simultaneously,
but in my description it will appear in sequence – such is the law of language.
